Now that we understand the business motivation
for a data warehouse or for creating a data warehouse,
let's look more at the technical perspective.
There are many definitions for a data warehouse,
and let's look at some because they show us different perspectives.
So, for example, Kimball who was one of the pioneers of the data warehouse actually says
the following very simple definition: "A data warehouse is a copy of
transaction data specifically structured for query and analysis."
So, the focus here is that,
we're going to take a copy,
we're not going to work on the same data,
and we're going to structure it in a way that is optimal for query and analysis.
Let's take another definition by another pioneer of
that field who's Bill Inmon, and he says,
"A data warehouse is a subject-oriented, integrated,
nonvolatile, and time-variant collection of data in support of management's decisions."
So, we still have the management decisions in
the idea that this is a decision-making kind of a process,
basically motivated by making management decisions and insights.
But the idea is that it's subject-oriented,
and now he's getting more specific into the idea that there is no one-size-fits-all,
or you have to categorize them by topic in a way.
It's integrated, which means,
the information you're going to get is going to come from many sources,
and it's nonvolatile in the sense that it's not transient.
This has to be persistent,
and it's a time-variant collection, which means,
I can ask the same question today,
tomorrow, and another day and it's going to change.
We have another one, which is from Rainardi,
and by the way,
I am referencing here three books,
and you can let look at the references at the end of the lesson.
But here, it says,
"A data warehouse is a system that retrieves, consolidates data periodically."
So, we have to retrieve and consolidate,
which we saw in the previous derilium.
But here, we add periodically,
in the sense giving us the knowledge that this is
a continuous process from the source system into a dimensional or normalized data store,
and here we start saying, "Oh,
we might either get in a dimension or normalized data store.
We don't know. That's a design option,
and then it usually keeps years of history and
is queried for business intelligence and other unethical activities,
and it's typically updated in batches.
Not every time a transactions happened in the source system."
So, here we are getting a little bit more of detail
about the internal workings of a data warehouse,
and both of them are
actually valid definitions which
show us different perspectives of a data warehouse.
So, the idea would be as follows: a data warehouse,
the first activity in it would be to do what's known as ETL,
where you extract the data from the source system used for operations,
and you transform them,
and you load them into a dimensional model.
The dimensional model itself is designed to make it easy for business users to work with
the data and it should improve the analytical query performance.
Naturally, the technologies that is used here might be completely different.
Both of them are databases,
but they might not be the same type of databases that we use here.
Finally, we would need here also what's known
as business intelligence applications that would actually have lots of visuals,
and reportings, and graphs,
and things of that sort.
So, to sum it up, the data warehouse goals has to be simple to understand.
That's a goal on itself.
It should be easy to understand,
and it has to be performance,
and it has to be quality assured,
and it should be able to handle new questions well and naturally it needs to be secure.